---
title: Excluding a bad RPM package
tags: [rpm, tips]
---
I'm a big fan of "KDE":http://kde.org, as both a user and a developer, and "Akregator":http://akregator.kde.org is my RSS feed reader of choice.  I'm also a big fan of RSS feeds, using them for almost all my regular daily information consumption.

So imagine my notable lack of delight when, after doing a regular YUM update, I discovered that the latest version of Akregator has "a serious bug that makes it almost unusable":https://bugs.kde.org/show_bug.cgi?id=271149.  And I didn't even want the new version anyway.

Ah, but since I'm using RPM and YUM, the fix for this sort of thing is actually pretty simple, although it took me a few minutes of reading man pages to work it out, so I thought I should share the fruits of my labor.  Here's how you exclude a bad RPM package:

First, find the last good version of the appropriate package:

<blockquote><pre><code>
$ rpm -qf `which akregator`
kdepim-4.4.11.1-2.fc14.x86_64

$ sudo yum list kdepim --showduplicates
...
Installed Packages
kdepim.x86_64        7:4.4.11.1-2.fc14
Available Packages
kdepim.x86_64        6:4.4.6-2.fc14
kdepim.x86_64        7:4.4.11.1-2.fc14
</code></pre></blockquote>

In this case, the desired version is 4.4.6 (the "6:" is the epoch, the "-2" is the release, and the "fc14" is the architecture).

Next, downgrade the package.  If there are any dependency errors, you'll also need to downgrade those packages too.

<blockquote><pre><code>
$ sudo yum downgrade kdepim-4.4.6
...
Error: Package: 7:kdepim-libs-4.4.11.1-2.fc14.x86_64
...

$ sudo yum downgrade kdepim-4.4.6 kdepim-libs
...
Removed:
  kdepim.x86_64 7:4.4.11.1-2.fc14                                                   kdepim-libs.x86_64 7:4.4.11.1-2.fc14

Installed:
  kdepim.x86_64 6:4.4.6-2.fc14                                                      kdepim-libs.x86_64 6:4.4.6-2.fc14

Complete!
</code></pre></blockquote>

And finally, edit @/etc/yum.conf@ and add the offending package version to an @exclude@ line:

<blockquote><pre><code>
[main]
...
exclude=kdepim-4.4.11.1 kdepim-libs-4.4.11.1
</code></pre></blockquote>

Take that, @kdepims-4.4.11@. _*plonk*_
